Team formation for Software Systems was a bit hectic for me. Being thrown into selecting a team on the first day wasn't what I expected, but it did force me to start really processing what extensions I wanted to learn and focus on in this class.

The hardest part was forming a group not really around a project idea, per say, but a general similarity in interests. Max, Jeremy, Bill and I were semi-interested in networks/graphics, and wanted to see if we could combine the two topics into a cool project.

Our biggest difficulty is narrowing down to a project idea. Most of us are intrigued by these topics because we don't know that much about them, and so we want to learn and absorb as much as we can from it. While that's great motivation, it makes for frustrating project ideation and brainstorming because we don't really know what is reasonably scoped. It's a slow process, but it's coming. Allen helped a lot today in showing us how we can look online for sources of inspiration, like other online courses or previous projects. We're planning on committing to a project idea definitely by the end of this week.

We are using our trello and google drive extensively -- I believe this is how we will keep most organized. The trello is perfect for tasks (writing down our responsibilities, assigning tasks to people, keeping track of what we've done and what we hope to do). The google drive is perfect for collecting information from these tasks, such as resources or our thoughts. We used the google drive to write down our individual learning goals for this project, and used that to generalize our team goals. The team goals gather the similarites or overlaps in the individual goals, like getting more experience with OpenGL/OpenCL/CUDA, etc. I think that our team goals will be improved when we finalize a project idea, because the individual goals branched into if we were doing a networks-heavy project versus a graphics-heavy project, so once we decide which one it is, we can further develop our team goals.

As for scrummaster, we kind of just picked Max. We wanted to get to work right away in organizing logistics for our team, and knew that all of us were capable of being scrummaster. Max volunteered, especially to head this first sprint, so we decided not to waste more time on that aspect. As for the other responsibilities, we say out loud something that needs to be done and someone will crank it out right away, and let the group know that they are covering that task. If it's more of a long-term task, then they'll assign themselves to it on trello and we can keep track of who's responsible for what.

On our trello, we include specific tasks to be done. If it's more general, if it can't be worded in a way that has a clear deliverable (such as "find 3 past projects for inspiration") then we typically don't include it on our sprint backlog. For right now, a lot of the sprint backlog is research so that we make sure whatever we pick as our project we are confident that we can actually accomplish.  